talking about today is complex and i'm
not going to pretend
to simplify it for you i got a message
from a longtime viewer and supporter of
the channel
shout out to little bubby asking
wouldn't the first step
in addressing racism in the united
states or a country very much like the
united states
be to address inequality between whites
and blacks
that's a result of the history of
slavery originally and then of course
long periods of uh segregation
unequal access to education unequal
access to banking and
all other services and advantages in
life wouldn't the first step be
he asks to address inequality
but inequality is not racism
those are two separate things i made a
video
about the solution to racism
you can have a country in which there
is wealth equality but people are
intensely racist
you can have a country in which there's
income equality
but in which people are intensely racist
there's a really important
methodological and even ethical
point to be made here that if we're
really talking about racism
we have to be clear that racism is an
issue
unto itself now i made another video i
would guess about one year ago
making the further point that inequality
is not poverty that if you're talking
about helping the poor
that's something very different from
reducing inequality a very large part
arithmetically of what we're talking
about with inequality is the difference
between the super rich and the
moderately rich
between the super rich and the middle
class and that's not really our concern
here most of the time politically that's
not our concern
but further in as much as you're talking
about
poverty and poverty alleviation you're
not
talking about racism you're not talking
about militant racism
because to do so on the basis of race
would itself be
racist what do i mean if you go out
into the trailer parks of detroit
to help poor people you have to do it
just because they're poor
you have to say okay we're here we have
this program we have this charity
whether it's a government program or
whatever we're here to help people
whatever move from a trailer into a
house
and then if a white person comes up to
you do you tell them no we don't
help you we only help black people no
you absolutely must ethically help
people
help poor people just on account of
their poverty
now this happens even in places like
cambodia
i had email correspondence with a
charity there
that was only helping catholics
and i said look it was actually housing
too it was
providing building new houses for people
you guys could probably guess what
sheridan i'm thinking of
say okay so you define yourselves as a
christian mission
what do they say they did not they said
they were not a christian missionary
organization
i think they defined themselves as a
christian fellowship
some of this and um
i said so you're coming to cambodia and
you're not helping the poor
you're not helping the poorest or the
poor you're not even helping people
geographically which may be inevitable
like you say okay we're gonna help
people in this village or this trailer
park or this slum like you can't help
everyone everywhere
no this is really like a kind of racism
you're arriving and only helping people
who fall into this one ethnic group or
this one
religious category um so
poverty alleviation is not
racism alleviation alleviating
economic inequality likewise is not a
leading race now
when we talk about racism as such racism
narrowly defined
what what i truly mean is an end to
racism a solution to the riddle of
racism
not poverty not wealth inequality
because again you can have the most
racist people in the world
in a place like georgia the state of
georgia united states of america
you say okay we're going to alleviate
poverty by redistributing land ownership
we're going to take land currently
there's a lot of land owned by a big
corporation like cargill
we're going to take it away from this
court we're going to give land to a
whole bunch of people
some black some white we're going to
give poor people free land now they can
become farmers or they can
develop it into a tourism destination
they can build an apartment building
suddenly they can get a bank loan
because they're they're now all land
owners
and they're still racist right the other
huge distraction
over the last 50 years has been the idea
that the solution to racism
is multiculturalism so again let's just
say the state of georgia but it could be
the state of virginia any of these
states people are intensely racist and
in these states the primary form of
racism
in this historical period is black
versus white the attitudes of white
people towards indigenous people
also very important and there was this
pretense
that the way to solve the problem was
just to have a bunch of
chinese restaurants come and set up
shrop in uh georgia and virginia
so now you've got white people who hate
black people and black people who hate
and resent
white people you have intense racism and
you have a history of genocide
in relation to the religious people but
chinese restaurants
indian restaurants pakistani
medical doctors working at the hospital
the idealized multicultural
society right south africa one of the
world's most
multicultural societies in the world
racism is an unbelievable problem
multiculturalism
is not the cure for racism it's not the
opposite it's a huge distraction
uh from this sort of question so when
we're dealing with racism
properly and narrowly define the main
point i'm trying to make
in these videos and this is only the
second video i've made in this topic
is that we have to think in terms of
addition not
subtraction now one problem i didn't
mention with subtraction
is that it is profoundly conservative it
is basically a view of american society
or australian society
that you have a perfectly nice and
wonderful and good society
except for the racism so it would be
that this would be to look at
police services in the united states and
say oh well gee
this business you have of the police
kicking down the door
throwing explosives through the windows
and holding everyone
at gunpoint in what are called no knock
raids this procedure
of no knock raids the only problem with
it is racism
now there's a case that will give you
nightmares
of a baby that had its face permanently
destroyed
baby has now had reconstructive surgery
but still
because of a no knock raid the
explosives were thrown through the
window these are called flashbang
explosives and all these guys with guns
and this
special forces gear file on the doors i
would be willing to bet money
that when the police did this they had
no idea what the ethnicity
of the people inside the house i think
they didn't know and this is this is
standard practice the united states
america the no knock raid
was carried out on the basis of one
anonymous phone call
they got one anonymous tip on the phone
saying there was drug dealing
going on in this house and it turned out
not to be true
now actually in what i read it was
confessed the the owner of the house the
family lives in the house he actually
did have a brother
who didn't live there who was in some
way connected to being a drug addict or
drug deal i
i don't know but it said actually there
was some reason for the why this phone
call might have
come in but no investigation no burden
of proof
no innocent proven guilty the police
raided this house and this
this baby was in a crib or lying in a
bed of some kind and the explosive went
in through the window
and hit this baby in the face the ethnic
group of these people
they were an indigenous people of
southeast asia called the mong
it's pronounced hmong but it's spelled
h-m-o-n-g
i would bet money that the police don't
even know what this ethnic group is
i i know those people i used to live
with those people in northern laos i met
my new home people i worked with hmong
people that's an ethnicity i know a lot
about the history and politics of
the average white police office they're
not they they might have thought they
were japanese
or they might have thought they were
white people they probably had no idea
looking at the name or looking at the
address
looking at the house they got this phone
call apparently they put no
no investigation of any kind they carry
out a no knock right now these
these no knock grades they may
disproportionately
uh injure black people i
i would bet money that in the united
states they're probably
disproportionately attacked
by people um i would bet that they
probably disproportionately do not
impact asian people in the united states
due to various factors including
poverty including various cultural
effectiveness
nevertheless the problem with this
police procedure
is not racism and the solution is not
subtracting racism from the police
department when you take this
subtractive attitude
what you're presuming and what you're
implicitly declaring is
there's nothing wrong with our society
our society built on genocide
colonialism and slavery there's nothing
wrong with police procedure and rights
and laws what have you
the only problem is the racism
of the attitudes of the police no knock
raids
responding to anonymous phone calls by
raiding someone's house at
gunpoint waiting and searching some of
those at one point this is fundamentally
bad and wrong and evil regardless
of the race of the person who's targeted
the person who's harmed and there are
real examples that will give you
nightmares of white people being shot
dead
by police in exactly the same scenario
white people significant numbers of
white people have been
harmed and killed this way on the basis
of an anonymous phone call
and by the way in some cases these
people are innocent
in some cases they're guilty in some
cases they're drug dealers
but they still didn't deserve to be shot
to death in their living room or
to have this happen there still is a
better way to arrest
and apprehend drug dealers than this
procedure
so by taking this subtractive attitude
by problematizing racism and assuming
that the solution is just to
subtract racism from the police force
and to subtract racism
from our society as a whole there's a
deep unexamined assumption there
that what the police are doing is fine
and good and what our society is
is fine and good if only we could
subtract the racism
uh here in canada the clash between
white settler populations and indigenous
populations is just
a much bigger percentage of our
political discourse
in some parts the united states that's
true also probably if you're in hawaii
if you're in maine uh you know if you're
in a
navajo country in the great deserts or
what have you there are some places in
the united states where that still is
also a major major political question
okay
so if you subtract racism from our
police force if you subtract racism
from our parliament if that were
possible if you ensure that each and
every member of our parliament
is not racist and each and every member
of our police force
on a cognitive level is not
racist the cree language
still goes extinct i i was walking past
a parking lot
here in victoria bc canada today and
then the sign up
in english and chinese for the parking
lot
i said have you ever seen a single
parking lot with a sign up in any
indigenous language here in canada
whether that be cree
ojibwe dene maybe if you go to the
northwest territories you can see a
parking lot with sign up in uh
one of the inuit languages maybe okay
so everyone can be not racist
and continue down the merry road to 100
genocide and 100 language extinction
right here in the
colonies of of north america right you
can everyone can be not racist
and merrily skip along the road to total
forced assimilation
right like where is a school where you
can take
lessons in navajo
now that's good sandwich what about a
school where navajo is the primary
language
where you can learn about geography and
chemistry and biology
taught to you in navajo as a medium and
how would you achieve that how would you
reverse even to a tiny extent the
impacts of languages nation
these questions also very real by the
way in mexico central america
south america you know really really
dealing with the consequences of
just so
again nothing else is racism
and when we address racism as such
properly defined
then my assertion is the question
and the answer has to be in terms of
something positive
something additional not something
subtractive
not something that just negates one
portion
of the what's become the social and
cultural norm
now to put a human face on this i've had
some really negative encounters with
police here in canada i certainly
look white i don't think those guys look
at me and consider me persian
or jewish but many times in my life
people do actually treat me as if i'm a
persian immigrant or north african arab
immigrant or something i have situations
people don't treat me this way but let's
just presume these cops
perceive me as white
cops act like thugs
they act like goons that act like gang
members i notice this
even when they're at trial even when
they're in court
they're trying to intimidate people they
talk to me
on the street and they try to intimidate
me i'm a very difficult person to
intimidate others
others really would be intimidated by
this behavior on a cultural level
these cops think that their role is to
be
a tough guy and you know i was just
thinking about the other day because
i've been reading confucius and a lot of
ancient chinese philosophy
and a lot of the philosophy of confucius
is about being a gentleman
what it means to be a true gentleman a
refined gentleman
i thought you know what the last time i
was talking to those cops i wish i'd
asked them
do you consider yourself an educated
person
do you do you consider yourself right
now to be behaving
like an educated gentleman you know
and i have asked cops to their face
what's your university degree in boy
i've said that to cops
to their face i got a degree in
political science how about you
because i know in the 21st century
pretty much all these cops have to have
a ba in something
they have to have a ba and then they go
to so-called justice
school and then go on to become cops
i've said that to cops
because what i'm doing is i'm not
putting them down i'm reminding them
you went to university and you studied
this right you are an educated person
but you're not acting like one now if
i'm looking to really improve
the quality and behavior of police
conduct
if i'm trying to change the culture of
policing and the attitudes
of policing this is not something as
simple as
subtracting racism it's not something as
simple as banning
or outlawing or punishing racism you
need a
positive ideal of what it is
to be a refined gentleman of what it is
to be an educated person of what it is
to be
helpful what it is to be a civil servant
of what it is to be a police officer
of what it is to hold that position of
public trust and yes
the question of how you handle your own
bias or your own hostility
is going to be part and parcel of that
right and
mason racism is a many splinter thing
there are many aspects to it
yeah but i mean i've mentioned this
story before i knew a guy
well-meaning guy he didn't think he was
racist he had his bike stolen
by a group of of black tough guys in the
streets in the in the united states
and it really changed his attitude and
gave him this very hostile feeling
you know if you're a police officer and
you've had a bunch of bad experiences
with hispanic people
it could even be japanese people could
be any race but the specific group of
people you've had bad experiences with
on the job
or in your childhood there is a special
discipline of mine that goes way beyond
racism say look even
even though i've dealt with a lot of
people who have
tattoos and spiky dyed hair
and i've had a lot of bad experiences
with those people if they're not a race
but there's still this person i'm
meeting for the first time
i don't know him i don't know you i'm
gonna treat you
the same way i treat my own brother or
my own distant cousin i'm gonna extend
there are real questions of
self-discipline and of cultivating and
rewarding that culture amongst police
officers
keeping with you i think that's a huge
issue for university professors i think
it's a huge issue for people in all
sorts of
positions of authority with university
professors
the problem isn't that they act like
tough guys it's that they act incredibly
selfish and self-intelligent but sure
i've had parallel conversations with
professors like what
what do you think it means to be a
professor i mean what is what is the
role you're you're trying to live up to
there is something positive that needs
to be accomplished there
right there is a new culture and as i
put it in my earlier video i think the
easiest way to both
exemplify this and to actually attain it
is to talk about a literature
why literature like why don't i say
start a new religion
for example or why don't i why don't i
say make a new disneyland or something
they can go on rides that'll teach them
a better place officers
go on a flume ride that'll make you less
racist
now why literature why the word
literature why the concept why aren't i
talking about
uh writing a new constitution like a new
political document or
starting a new religion why isn't why
would the word literature come
up here and of course i'm not just dying
with the word but
the thing as such
how did those cops get the notion into
their head
that they ought to behave like gangsters
like tough guys like criminals
and as i said i see that on the street
face to face i see it in news footage i
see it even when they've been caught
committing a crime the way they try to
defend themselves and present
they're still blustering they're still
trying to be a tough guy for the camera
and for the court you can't give up
where do you think they got that from
in a word literature yes
movies yes comic books yes
cartoons yes reality tv yes
there is a literature there is a crime
literature there is a police procedural
literature there's a detective novel
literature that profoundly
shapes their attitudes their habitats
their ethics and indeed their ethos
how they perform the duties of a police
officer
are men and women who are serving in
parliament today
why do they act the way they do
they are drawing not on some kind of
formal training
not from some philosophical exercise not
from aristotle
there is a kind of literature that has
prepared them that gave them this sense
of what that role is
and how to play it so i do think it's
the literature
that has to be changed and if you really
can't have a literature that
exemplifies that that shows what it
means to be a good cop or maybe the
literature is also showing you
the consequences of being a bad cop the
literature that show
that gives us something meaningful as i
explained in uh
my earlier video a bridge between people
who are
by nature by default or out of our
primordial ligaments people who are just
mutually alienated and mutually
invidious
what is the literature that would make a
cop
feel a kind of kinship for the man or
for the woman
he or she has to arrest what is it that
you could quote
that could bring people together and
make them feel some sense
of common intellectual aspiration some
some common ethos of trying to make the
world a better place
if you and i both had quoted this
literature and now i'm the one who has
to put you in a jail cell because you've
made some bad choices because you've
made some mistake but i can still see
you
as a human being it's not going to be
shakespeare
and it's not going to be sesame street
so i'm asking that question
what is that literature that can bring
us together
and help us transcend some of these
really toxic
and really invidious and really
destructive cultural roles
that we find ourselves still in the year
2020 acting out in a loop
again and again